docs: Create scanning-barcodes.MD (#12179)
openfoodfacts/openfoodfacts-server: docs/api/tutorials/scanning-barcodes.md

#### **✅ Provide Instant Feedback**
The user needs immediate confirmation that a scan was successful.
* **Haptic Feedback:** A short vibration is a powerful, non-intrusive signal.
* **Auditory Cue:** A quick, pleasant "beep" sound.
* **Visual Confirmation:** Briefly freeze the frame or animate the viewfinder box (e.g., it flashes green). Follow this *immediately* with a loading indicator so the user knows the app is fetching data.

#### **✍️ The Escape Hatch: Manual Entry**
Sometimes a barcode is damaged, or the camera fails. Always provide a fallback.
* Include a button on the scanner screen labeled **"Enter barcode manually."** This builds user trust and handles edge cases gracefully.

---

### 3. Master the API Interaction

Once you have a barcode string, you must normalize it before querying the correct database.

#### **✔️ Step 3.1: Pre-process the Barcode (Normalization)**
Barcode scanners can return codes in various formats (EAN-8, EAN-13, UPC-A, UPC-E). To ensure a match in the database, the Open Food Facts server will normalize the barcode on your behalf. You should not try to normalize barcodes**

> 1.  **Pad with Zeros:** If the scanned barcode has fewer than 13 digits, pad it with leading zeros until it reaches 13 digits. For example, `12345678` (EAN-8) becomes `0000012345678`.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  **Padding with Zeros:** If the scanned barcode has fewer than 13 digits, the Open Food Facts server will pad it with leading zeros until it reaches 13 digits. For example, `12345678` (EAN-8) becomes `0000012345678`.
```

#### **🌍 Step 3.2: Choose the Right Database Endpoint**
The Open "Everything" Facts platform uses the same API structure across different domains. Simply change the domain in the URL to query the database you need. You can also make a universal call that will call all 4 databases for an answer, and you can display results however you like, mention you don't support specific data types, and help users add missing products by taking photos.

| Project | Domain for API Calls |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Open Food Facts** | `https://world.openfoodfacts.org` |
| **Open Beauty Facts** | `https://world.openbeautyfacts.org` |
| **Open Pet Food Facts**| `https://world.openpetfoodfacts.org` |
| **Open Products Facts** | `https://world.openproductsfacts.org` |

#### **📡 Step 3.3: Make the API Call**
Make a simple GET request to the appropriate v2 API endpoint with your normalized barcode:
`GET https://{domain}/api/v2/product/{normalized_barcode}.json`

**Crucial Best Practice:**

> * **Set a Proper User-Agent:** This is essential for API etiquette. Use the format: `User-Agent: MyAppName - Android - Version 2.1 - https://example.com`

Author: ```suggestion
* **Set a Proper User-Agent:** This is essential for API etiquette. Use the format: `User-Agent: MyAppName - Android - Version 2.1 - https://example.com - scan`
```

* **Manual Torch Button:** Always include an easily accessible button to toggle the device's flashlight.
* **(Advanced) Automatic Torch:** You can even use the ambient light sensor to detect low-light conditions and proactively display a message like, "It's dark, want to turn on the light?"

#### **✅ Provide Instant Feedback**
The user needs immediate confirmation that a scan was successful.
* **Haptic Feedback:** A short vibration is a powerful, non-intrusive signal.
* **Auditory Cue:** A quick, pleasant "beep" sound.
* **Visual Confirmation:** Briefly freeze the frame or animate the viewfinder box (e.g., it flashes green). Follow this *immediately* with a loading indicator so the user knows the app is fetching data.

#### **✍️ The Escape Hatch: Manual Entry**
Sometimes a barcode is damaged, or the camera fails. Always provide a fallback.
* Include a button on the scanner screen labeled **"Enter barcode manually."** This builds user trust and handles edge cases gracefully.

---

### 3. Master the API Interaction

Once you have a barcode string, you must normalize it before querying the correct database.

#### **✔️ Step 3.1: Pre-process the Barcode (Normalization)**

> Barcode scanners can return codes in various formats (EAN-8, EAN-13, UPC-A, UPC-E). To ensure a match in the database, you **must normalize the barcode to the EAN-13 format.**

Author: ```suggestion
Barcode scanners can return codes in various formats (EAN-8, EAN-13, UPC-A, UPC-E). To ensure a match in the database, the Open Food Facts server will normalize the barcode on your behalf. You should not try to normalize barcodes**
```

1.  **Pad with Zeros:** If the scanned barcode has fewer than 13 digits, pad it with leading zeros until it reaches 13 digits. For example, `12345678` (EAN-8) becomes `0000012345678`.

> 2.  **Calculate the Check Digit (for 12-digit UPC-A):** If you have a 12-digit barcode (common in North America), you must calculate the 13th digit (the EAN-13 check digit) and append it.

Reviewer: This is false, 12 digit barcodes are not barcodes missing a check digit.

> 2.  **Calculate the Check Digit (for 12-digit UPC-A):** If you have a 12-digit barcode (common in North America), you must calculate the 13th digit (the EAN-13 check digit) and append it.

Author: ```suggestion
2.  **Calculate the Check Digit:** If you have a 13 or 12-digit barcode, you must take the last 12th digits, the final digit being the check digit.
```
